=head1 NAME


Apache::Cookie - HTTP Cookies Class


=for testing
  use Apache2;
  use Apache::Cookie;
  use APR::Pool;
  $r = APR::Pool->new;
  $j = Apache::Cookie::Jar->new($r);
  $j->cookies->{foo} = Apache::Cookie->new($r, name => "foo", value => "1");
  $j->cookies->add( Apache::Cookie->new($r, name => "bar", value => "2") );
  # We must disable bake and bake2 in the api tests, 
  # since they write directly to fd 1 via apr_file_write().
  *Apache::Cookie::bake = *Apache::Cookie::bake2 = *Apache::Cookie::as_string;




=head1 SYNOPSIS


=for example begin

    use Apache::Cookie;

    $j = Apache::Cookie::Jar->new($r);
    $c_in = $j->cookies("foo");      # get cookie from request headers

    $c_out = Apache::Cookie->new($r, 
                                  -name => "mycookie",
                                  -value => $c_in->name );
    $c_out->set_attr(path => "/bar");
    $c_out->bake;                       # send cookie in response headers

=for example end

=for example_testing
    ok "foo bar" eq join " ", keys %{$j->cookies};
    ok $c_out->as_string eq "mycookie=foo; path=/bar";
    ok $c_in->value == 1;




=head1 DESCRIPTION


The new Apache::Cookie module is based on the original 1.X versions, which mimic 
the CGI::Cookie API.  The current version of this module includes several packages 
and methods which are patterned after Apache::Request, yet remain largely 
backwards-compatible with the original 1.X API (see the L<PORTING> section 
below for known issues).

This manpage documents the Apache::Cookie and Apache::Cookie::Jar packages.  
Apache::Cookie::Error, Apache::Cookie::Jar::Error and Apache::Cookie::Table
are also provided by this module but documented elsewhere (related manpages
listed in L<SEE ALSO>).




=head1 Apache::Cookie::Jar

XXX Dump __PACKAGE__->env inheritance (doesn't work in CGI context) XXX


=head2 new($env [,VALUE_CLASS => $cookie_class])


Class method that retrieves the parsed cookie jar from the current 
environment.


=for example begin
     {
        package FOO;
        @ISA= 'Apache::Cookie';
     }
        my $jar = Apache::Cookie::Jar->new($r, VALUE_CLASS => "FOO");

=for example end

=for example_testing
        ok $jar->isa("Apache::Cookie::Jar");
        ok $jar->cookies("foo")->isa("FOO");
        ok $jar->cookies->{foo}->isa("FOO");



=head2 cookies($key)

Retrieve cookies named $key with from the jar object.  In scalar
context the first such cookie is returned, and in list context the
full list of such cookies are returned.

If the $key argument is omitted, C<< scalar $jar->cookies() >> will 
return a reference to a tied Apache::Cookie::Table containing all the 
cookies in the jar.  Modifications to the returned table will affect
the jar's internal I<cookies> table in C<apreq_jar_t>, so their impact 
will be noticed by all libapreq2 applications during this request.

In list context C<< $jar->cookies() >> returns the list of names 
for all the cookies in the jar.  The order corresponds to the 
order in which the cookies appeared in the incoming "Cookie" header.

This method will throw an Apache::Cookie::Jar::Error object into $@ if
the returned value(s) may be unreliable.  In particular, note that 
C<< scalar $jar->cookies("foo") >> will not croak if it can locate
the a "foo" cookie within the jar's parsed cookie table, even if the 
cookie parser has failed (the cookies are parsed in the same order
as they appeared in the "Cookie" header). In all other circumstances 
C<cookies> will croak if the parser failed to successfully parse the 
"Cookie" header.


=for example begin

     $j->cookies->add(Apache::Cookie->new($r, name => "foo", value => 3));

     $cookie = $j->cookies("foo");  # first foo cookie
     @cookies = $j->cookies("foo"); # all foo cookies
     @names = $j->cookies();        # all cookie names

=for example end


=for example_testing
     ok @cookies == 2;
     ok $_ -> name eq "foo" for $cookie, @cookies;
     ok $cookies[0]->value eq $cookie->value;
     ok $cookies[0]->value == 1;
     ok $cookies[1]->value == 3;
     ok "foo bar foo" eq "@names";


=head2 status

Reports the final I<APR> status code of the cookie parser:
APR_SUCCESS on success, error otherwise.  May be reset
to a new value by passing it as an additional argument.

=for example begin

   $j->status(-1);
   ok $j->status == -1;
   eval { @cookies = $j->cookies("foo") };   # croaks
   ok $@->isa("Apache::Cookie::Jar::Error");
   $j->status(0);
   ok $j->status == 0;

=for example end

=head2 env

As a class method C<< Apache::Cookie::Jar->env >> returns
the environment class associated with Apache::Cookie::Jar. 
As an object method, C<< $jar->env >> returns the environment 
object which first created the $jar (via C<new>).

=for example
   ok Apache::Cookie::Jar->env eq ref $j->env;


=head2 pool

The pool associated with the current environment.

=for example
  ok $j->pool->isa("APR::Pool");




=head1 Apache::Cookie




=head2 new

Just like CGI::Cookie::new, but requires an I<Apache> request object:

        my $cookie = Apache::Cookie->new($r,
                             -name    =>  'foo', 
                             -value   =>  'bar', 
                             -expires =>  '+3M', 
                             -domain  =>  '.capricorn.com', 
                             -path    =>  '/cgi-bin/database',
                             -secure  =>  1 
                            ); 

The C<-value> attribute may be either an arrayref, a hashref, or
an object with a C<freeze> method.  The <freeze> method must serialize
the object in a manner compatible with the "value" portion of the 
Cookie specs. Specifically, it must take care to avoid header tokens [;,=] 
and whitespace characters in its output.


=head2 as_string

Format the cookie object as a string:

 #same as $cookie->bake
 $r->headers_out->add("Set-Cookie" => $cookie->as_string);


=head2 name

Get the name of the cookie:

 my $name = $cookie->name;

=head2 value

Get the value of the cookie:

 my $value = $cookie->value;
 my @values = $cookie->value;

Note: if the cookie's value was serialized from an object possessing a 
C<freeze> method, one way to reconstitute the object is by subclassing 
Apache::Cookie with a package that provides the associated C<thaw> sub:

  package My::Cookie;
  use base 'Apache::Cookie';
  sub thaw { ... }
  bless $cookie, __PACKAGE__;

  my $obj = $cookie->value;  # same as $cookie->thaw($cookie->raw_value);

=head2 raw_value

Gets the raw (opaque) value string as it appears in the incoming
"Cookie" header.



=head2 bake

Add a I<Set-Cookie> header to the outgoing headers table.

    $cookie->bake;


=head2 bake2

Add a I<Set-Cookie2> header to the outgoing headers table.

    $cookie->bake2;


=head2 domain

Get or set the domain for the cookie:

 my $domain = $cookie->domain;
 $cookie->domain(".cp.net");

=head2 path

Get or set the path for the cookie:

 my $path = $cookie->path;
 $cookie->path("/");

=head2 expires

Get or set the expire time for the cookie:

 my $expires = $cookie->expires;
 $cookie->expires("+3h");

=head2 secure

Get or set the secure flag for the cookie:

 my $secure = $cookie->secure;
 $cookie->secure(1);


=head2 fetch

Fetch and parse the incoming I<Cookie> header:

=for example begin

    my $cookies = Apache::Cookie->fetch($r); #hash ref

    my %cookies = Apache::Cookie->fetch($r);

=for example end

=for example_testing
#    ok "foobar" eq join "", keys %$cookies;
#    ok 12 == join "", sort map {$_->value} values %cookies;






=head1 PORTING

Changes to the 1.X API:

=over 4

=item * C<Apache::Cookie::fetch> requires an C<$r> object as (second) argument.

=item * C<Apache::Cookie::parse> is gone.

=item * C<Apache::Cookie::new> can take an object as its -value arg, assuming
        the object has a valid C<freeze> method.

=item * C<name> and <value> no longer accept a "set" argument. In other words,
        neither a cookie's name, nor its value, may be modified.  A new cookie
        should be made instead.

=back



=head1 SEE ALSO

CGI::Cookie(3), Apache::Cookie::Error(3), Apache::Cookie::Jar::Error(3),
Apache::Cookie::Table(3), Apache::Request(3), APR(3).


=head1 COPYRIGHT

  Copyright 2003-2004  The Apache Software Foundation

  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.

