=head1 NAME

APR::Request - wrapper for libapreq2's module/handle API.


=for testing
    use APR::Pool;
    use APR::Brigade;
    use APR::Bucket;
    use APR::BucketAlloc;
    use APR::Request;
    use APR::Request::Parser;
    $pool = APR::Pool->new;
    $ba = APR::BucketAlloc->new($pool);
    $bb = APR::Brigade->new($pool, $ba);
    $bb->insert_tail(APR::Bucket->new($ba,
                                  "alpha=body1&beta=body2;foo=body3"));
    $parser = APR::Request::Parser->urlencoded($pool, $ba,
                                    "application/x-www-form-urlencoded");




=head1 SYNOPSIS


=for example begin

  use APR::Request;

  $req = APR::Request::Custom->handle($pool,
                                      "foo=arg1&bar=arg2",
                                      "cookie=apache",
                                       $parser, 1e6, $bb);
  $param = $req->param("foo");
  $cookie = $req->jar("cookie");

=for example end

=for example_testing
    ok $req->isa("APR::Request");
    is $param, "arg1", "param";
    is $cookie, "apache", "cookie";




=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<< APR::Request >> module provides the base methods
for interfacing with libapreq2's module API.  It also provides
a few utility functions and constants.

This manpage documents version 33
of the APR::Request and APR::Request::Custom packages.



=head1 METHODS

APR::Request::Custom - derived from APR::Request.




=head2 handle

    APR::Request::Custom->handle($pool,
                                 $query_string,
                                 $cookie_header,
                                 $parser,
                                 $read_limit,
                                 $brigade)

Creates a new APR::Request::Custom object.  The $query_string
and $cookie_headers are immediately parsed into the C<args> and
C<jar> tables.  The $parser is an APR::Request::Parser object
which is invoked when fetching C<body> entries from the $brigade.
The $read_limit represents the maximum number of bytes this handle
may feed into the parser.





=head1 METHODS

APR::Request




=head2 pool

    $req->pool()

Returns the APR::Pool object associated to this handle.




=head2 bucket_alloc

    $req->bucket_alloc()

Returns the APR::BucketAlloc object associated to this handle.




=head2 jar_status

    $req->jar_status()

Returns the final status code of the handle's cookie header parser.




=head2 args_status

    $req->args_status()

Returns the final status code of the handle's query-string parser.




=head2 body_status

    $req->body_status()

Returns the final status code of the handle's body parser.




=head2 param_status

    $req->param_status()

Returns C<< ($req->args_status, $req->body_status) >> in list
context; otherwise returns C<< $req->args_status || $req->body_status >>.


=head2 parse

    $req->parse()

Parses the jar, args, and body tables. Returns
C<< $req->jar_status, $req->args_status, $req->body_status >>.


=head2 jar

    $req->jar()
    $req->jar($key)

With no arguments, this method returns a tied APR::Request::Cookie::Table
object in scalar context, or the names (in order, with repetitions) of all
the parsed cookies.

With the C<$key> argument, in scalar context this method fetches the first
matching cookie.  In list context it returns all matching cookies.
The returned cookies are the values as they appeared in the incoming
Cookie header.



=head2 args

    $req->args()
    $req->args($key)

With no arguments, this method returns a tied APR::Request::Param::Table
object in scalar context, or the names (in order, with repetitions) of all
the parsed query-string arguments.

With the C<$key> argument, in scalar context this method fetches the first
matching query-string arg.  In list context it returns all matching args.



=head2 body

    $req->body()
    $req->body($key)

With no arguments, this method returns a tied APR::Request::Param::Table
object in scalar context, or the names (in order, with repetitions) of all
the parsed cookies.

With the C<$key> argument, in scalar context this method fetches the first
matching body param.  In list context it returns all matching body params.



=head2 param

    $req->param()
    $req->param($key)

With no arguments, this method returns a tied APR::Request::Cookie::Table
object in scalar context, or the names (in order, with repetitions) of all
the incoming (args + body) params.

With the C<$key> argument, in scalar context this method fetches the first
matching param.  In list context it returns all matching params.




=head2 upload

    $req->upload()
    $req->upload($key)




=head2 uploads (APR::Request::Param::Table???)

    $req->uploads($pool)




=head2 read_limit

    $req->read_limit()
    $req->read_limit($set)




=head2 brigade_limit

    $req->brigade_limit()
    $req->brigade_limit($set)

Get/set the brigade_limit for the current parser.  This limit
determines how many bytes of a file upload that the parser may
spool into main memory.  Uploads exceeding this limit are written
directly to disk.


=head2 temp_dir

    $req->temp_dir()
    $req->temp_dir($set)

Get/set the spool directory for uploads which exceed the configured
brigade_limit.


=head2 disable_uploads

    $req->disable_uploads()

Engage the disable_uploads hook for this request.




=head2 upload_hook

    $req->upload_hook($callback)

Add an upload hook callback for this request.  The
arguments to the $callback sub are ($upload, $new_data).




=head2 import

Exports a list of subs into the caller's package.


=head1 SUBROUTINES

APR::Request




=head2 encode

    encode($string)

Exportable sub which returns the url-encoded form of C<$string>.




=head2 decode

    decode($string)

Exportable sub which returns the url-decoded form of C<$string>.




=head1 SUBCLASSING

APR::Request

If the instances of your subclass are hash references then you can actually
inherit from APR::Request as long as the APR::Request object is stored in
an attribute called "r" or "_r". (The APR::Request class effectively does the
delegation for you automagically, as long as it knows where to find the
APR::Request object to delegate to.)  For example:

	package MySubClass;
	use APR::Request::Custom;
	our @ISA = qw(APR::Request);
	sub new {
		my($class, @args) = @_;
		return bless { r => APR::Request::Custom->handle(@args) }, $class;
	}






=head1 SEE ALSO

L<APR::Request::Error>, L<APR::Request::Param>,
L<APR::Request::Cookie>, L<APR::Request::Parser>




=head1 COPYRIGHT

  Copyright 2003-2005  The Apache Software Foundation

  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
